What we've seen so far are called time series risk models.
Most practitioners tend to buy
commercial risk models that are built and maintained by other companies.
These commercial risk models tend to be a different type of risk model,
a cross-sectional risk model.
The use of cross-sectional risk models is quite common within the investment industry.
So, even though it is unlikely that you will have to
implement a cross-sectional risk model from scratch,
it is good to have a sense for how they work.
So, what is a cross-sectional risk model,
and how is it different from time series risk model?
Well, let us first see how a cross-section differs from a time series.
If we have lots of data on a single stock over time,
this is a time series.
If we have lots of data on many stocks in a single time period,
such as one day then that is a cross-section.
For risk models, a cross-sectional factor model also differs from
a time series factor model in terms of
what is known and what is estimated by a regression.
Let us look at the factor model has a bunch of factor exposures and factor returns.
When we use a time series model,
the factor returns were calculated first using theoretical portfolios.
Then, given the factor returns data and the stock returns,
the factor exposures were estimated using regression.
With the cross-sectional factor model we would actually calculate the factor exposures,
the betas before doing a regression,
then the factor returns are estimated using regression.
This may sound pretty confusing at first, I have to admit,
it was confusing to me after hearing it for the first time,
and also second time and the third time.
Let us look at this topic a bit more.